#summary RainbowDashboard is a third-party firmware for the Rainbowduino by Seeed Studio.

RainbowDashboard is a third-party firmware for the Rainbowduino
by Seeed Studio. Among its features:

  * Clean, maintainable code base.
  * Compatible with standard firmware.
  * Supports UART mode (no Arduino host needed - talk to Rainbowduino directly).
  * Double-buffered graphics operations.
  * Software real-time clock.
  * Animation driven by the Rainbowduino itself.
  * Full Windows ANSI (CP1252) character set.
  * High-level command set.

RainbowDashboard operates similarly to CommandMode, but
supports four types of commands instead of just one.

Short commands have the same format as standard command mode:

|| `52` || the header, an ASCII 'R' ||
|| `cc` || the command number ||
|| `sr` || the column number; the red channel ||
|| `gb` || the green channel; the blue channel ||
|| `ii` || the image number, ASCII value, or row number ||

Long commands have the following format:

|| `72` || the header, an ASCII 'r' ||
|| `cc` || the command number ||
|| `xx` || the column number ||
|| `yy` || the row number (typically) ||
|| `zz` || the picture number, ASCII value, or control channel (typically) ||
|| `rr` || the red channel (typically) ||
|| `gg` || the green channel (typically) ||
|| `bb` || the blue channel (typically) ||

Short direct-mode commands have the format of an ASCII uppercase 'D' followed
by 96 bytes of raw Rainbowduino buffer data in the format used by DirectMode.

Long direct-mode commands have the format of an ASCII lowercase 'd' followed
by 256 bytes of raw RainbowDashboard buffer data. The data is organized
channel-by-channel in control, red, green, blue order; row-by-row; then
column-by-column, with one byte per one column.

For more, see:

  * [Commands]
  * PixelFormat
  * [Animation]
  * HostPrograms